# Analyzing Potential Wind Turbine Locations Using Automated Weather Station Data

#### Matthew Kwee, Aug. 2021

## Abstract

For this project, I analyzed California weather data in order to find the best locations to create wind farms.



## Design
This project presents a series of plots which show wind speed, air density, and profitability of potential locations, and highlight the windiest and most profitable potential locations.


## Data
I downloaded all weather data for 2020 from the NOAA's website, discarding all null values and non-California locations.

The resulting dataset had 1,348,152 datapoints, so I used Pandas to average wind speed for each day.


## Algorithms
1. Looping through 13570 CSV files, discarding null values, irrelevant features, and any files outside of a rectangular box surrounding California.

2. Using the Google Maps reverse geocoding API to assign an address to remaining stations that might be in California, and keeping only California data.

3. Calculating the average wind speed for each station per day with Pandas.

4. Analyzing data with Google Sheets, calculating the mean wind speed and its standard deviation, using elevation to calculate air density, using mean wind speed and air density to compute power generated by a standard General Electric 1.5MW turbine, and calculating the revenue the turbine would generate.


### Models

No models were used for exploratory data analysis.


## Tools
- Python for data cleaning and selection

- Pandas for data aggregation

- Google Maps Reverse Geocoding API to provide each station with an address

- Google Sheets to conduct exploratory data analysis and calculate key metrics

- Tablaeu for data visualization





